# DeepSolar Extension
Extending Stanford's DeepSolar model to handle distribuition shifts (eg. satellite datasets from other countries)


This repository has multiple branches implementing finetuning strategies. 

- finetune: Implements vanilla L2 regularized fine-tuning and includes working in progress code for SMART regularization. Within the src/ folder of this branch, there are scripts for hyperparameter tuning, training and testing for the segmentation and classification branches of the original DeepSolar model using this method. (Reference: Dongyue Li and Hongyang R. Zhang. Improved Regularization and Robustness for Fine-tuning in Neural Networks, 2021. https://arxiv.org/abs/2111.04578)

- lisa: Implements LISA (Learning Invariant Predictors with Selective Augmentation), a data augmentation method that linearly interpolates between training example inputs and labels (Yao, 2022). Within the src/ folder of this branch, there are scripts for hyperparameter tuning, training and testing for the segmentation and classification branches of the original DeepSolar model using this method. There are also scripts for evaluating the finetuned and baseline models, and .csv files containing the results reported in the paper. (Reference: Huaxiu Yao, Yu Wang, Sai Li, Linjun Zhang, Weixin Liang, James Zou, and Chelsea Finn. Improving out-of-distribution robustness via selective augmentation, 2022. https://arxiv.org/pdf/2201.00299.pdf)

- gan: We simultyaneously train Generator (G) and Discriminator (D) models. At each iteration of the training process, we "generate" examples specifically chosen to challenge the "discriminator". This approach aims to improve the model's ability to handle complex and diverse scenarios, ultimately leading to better performance on the distribution shift issues experienced by the Deepsolar model between the French and the USA datasets. (Reference: Riccardo Volpi and Hongseok Namkoong and Ozan Sener and John Duchi and Vittorio Murino and Silvio Savarese. Generalizing to Unseen Domains via Adversarial Data Augmentation, 2018. https://arxiv.org/abs/1805.12018)

- sam: A rough, quick experiment feeding the CAM output of the original DeepSolar segmentation model into Meta's Segment Anything Model (Kirillov, 2023) to produce segmentation masks. Within the src/ folder of this branch, there is an iPython notebook with the source code for this experiment and associated example images/outputs. (Reference: Alexander Kirillov, Eric Mintun, Nikhila Ravi, Hanzi Mao, Chloe Rolland, Laura Gustafson, Tete Xiao, Spencer Whitehead, Alexander C. Berg, Wan-Yen Lo, Piotr Dollár, and Ross Girshick. Segment anything, 2023. https://arxiv.org/abs/2304.02643)
